The Joe Rogan experience.
So you start off with this first mile and then eventually work your way up to
all these challenges. And then eventually you decide,
I am going to row across the Atlantic ocean by
myself.
Yeah. So, okay. So the row, um,
I was on a bus, right.
And I was like talking to someone sitting next to me and we were talking about
endurance challenges and, um, I was, uh,
stubborn, no, at all 19 year old. So of course I was like, oh,
I've heard it all. I know people climb Mount Everest.
I know people sail around the world. I know about all these things.
And then he mentioned his friend rode across the Atlantic and
that was like, that just stopped me in my tracks.
Like what, like people can do that. Like I never,
it was so far beyond anything I ever imagined. And,
um, I think like with endurance,
what's so cool about endurance is like at a certain point everyone's body
hurts. Right?
So what makes endurance like a really cool experience is
seeing how the human will and how like determination and how a strong
mind, like you it's a requirement because everyone,
no matter how fast or slow you are, is going through that, that mental wall.
And so, um, yeah,
I found out about ocean rowing and I was really captivated, not only by,
um, that mental component, because like, if you do a marathon, you go home,
you take your shower, you, um, you have people cheering you on, but,
but ocean rolling, you're stripped raw of that. And,
and something about that was intriguing to me because it's like, okay,
how can you dig deep internally when you don't have the,
you know, the finish line, um, you know,
whatever a party and like the swag and the people and the
nice cozy bed. And I just kind of,
I liked that idea of like being so stripped raw that you have to dig
deeper than you ever would if you didn't have all those other externals.
So yeah, I found out about it on a bus.
I went home and went and Googled everything I could
about ocean rowing.
And it was at a time where I did my first ultra
marathon. So it was like a hundred kilometer run or 62 miles.
And it was, again, one of those moments where I was like,
I never thought I could do that. And my body proved otherwise.
So what are all the other things that I'm saying I can't do, but maybe I can.
So it was really that information at
that particular time where I was like really open to the idea of, wow,
maybe it is possible, but, um,
it was a matter of like researching everything. It wasn't like, oh,
I got to do this. It was, oh, I got to find out everything because I mean,
if someone told you, someone wrote across the Atlantic,
wouldn't the first thing be like, is that really true? Like, so, I mean,
that was the first place I look like. Are people legitimately doing that?
How much time was it between you finding out about it and you actually.
Doing it two years? No.
No. What kind of training did you do?
Um, so like physical training,
like compared to doing like,
I've trained for like iron mans and then train for adventures, like physical,
purely physical too.
Like these more adventure type things and like training for an iron man,
90% is like what you're doing in the gym for ocean rowing and
for like the more adventure type, um, athletic pursuits,
I would say that like 90% was like the logistics.
Like you could be the most fit person in the world,
but if you don't have a boat, what does it matter? Like,
so I spent most of my time just like sorting out through all the
logistics, the sponsorship, getting the gear training with the gear. But, um,
yeah, like my training priorities for rowing an ocean were,
um, injury prevention.
So I did a lot with like strengthening my core and my lower back.
And then on the weekends is when I would do like a six to eight hour row
training road just to get more,
to get used to the boat and the equipment more than anything else. But.
On a lake lake.
Erie? Yeah.
Yeah. Now how fast do you go on this boat?
Uh, like maybe I would go like 30 miles a day. No.
No. How fast? Like.
Uh, three, two or three miles.
It was three miles per hour. So basically like the speed of walking.
Yeah. So, um,
my boat was a 19 foot rowboat.
It was like 400 pounds, but once it was fully loaded,
it was a thousand pounds. So it did have like a sliding seat?
Yes. Okay. So, um, I,
I had a sliding seat,
so that meant that like my legs and my back were the main source of
like power. But, um, I think the best.
Like you mean the sliding sleeve?
Exactly. So like, it helps you,
it means that like the power was coming from the most powerful parts of my
body, not in my arms. So some people assume like, oh, it's just your upper body.
It's just your arms. But in fact it's more your legs and back. But.
Um, so this thing's going two or three miles an hour. Correct.
And how many miles is the Atlantic ocean? How many miles?
Yeah, 3000. So, oh my God. Don't think about it.
Don't even think of.
Oh my God. That's so far,
so far.
It was the worst reaching the halfway point, just because.
Like how long did it take you the whole trip? 70 days? 70 days.
That's not that bad when you think about it, how far are you?
Yeah, I would say so. Yeah, I anticipated,
it would be 70 or a hundred days.
And so.
I had 30 days of extra food and so it was good.
Yeah. Yep. Was anybody monitoring you?
Uh, I had like a tracker,
so people could like look online and see where I was. Um,
but there wasn't like a follow boat or anything like that.
Yeah. Those nights, like.
It was pretty amazing. Yeah. So of course the stars were amazing,
like shooting stars and just like, yeah, breathtaking.
And then what surprised me? Like I thought it was like, wait, is this real?
Am I hallucinating? But the, the,
I think the most stunning part was actually looking in the water because they
had like, um, this type of glowing plankton. So it was like a phosphorescence.
So sometimes I would see things glowing in the distance and then all around my
bow. Um, anytime my, or hit the water,
like I would see all of that. And yeah,
like I was so busy planning the trip and the logistics that I didn't
know, like what wildlife I'd see.
And so that was definitely like a pleasant surprise to.
Yeah. It must have been really crazy. Yeah. Have you ever seen no. No.
I've seen it on video so you can find video of it. Um, what is it called?
It's bioluminescence,
but there are like Puerto Rico is probably the closest place to here that has
really good bioluminescence to like.
Yeah. So that it really looked like that bright blue.
That's amazing. Very.
Trippy.
That's so wild. Yeah.
Yeah. So I could put my hand in the water and.
Take any photos or film. I.
Did have some, uh, film and, uh, yeah,
sometimes I know, like you can't really take good.
I mean, yeah. I didn't have really good.
Bioluminescence photos. Um, look at that. Sure.
That's insane.
Now you said the stars stars were.
Amazing. Yes.
Like how amazing, I mean, no pollute light pollution at all.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I, I mean, it,
in some ways it felt like I was just like living this national geographic
experience of like, you know, I had dolphins come right up to my boat. I had,
um, yeah, yeah. Like, uh, I think it was like the fourth way mark. I was like,
I want to celebrate, um, my way of celebrating was very limited.
It was like, oh, am I going to have two Snickers bars? Like,
there's not really anything other than what I had,
but this pot of dolphins surrounded my boat and we're doing like flips and
tricks and like right at that moment that I was reaching it. So yeah,
the,
the dolphins and sharks and birds,
and, um,
I even had like fish falling right underneath my boat. Like,
because barnacles would grow. It was like I on, on the side of my boat, I would,
um, scrub them off. But sometimes they would just keep following my boat.
So every time I, I named them ed Nettie,
but I had like three Dorado's that would keep falling and birds that came on
my boat and wow. Yeah.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan express.